weekly_glossaries/week_1.md, before:

# Week 1 Glossary

## Concepts
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Abstraction | | Making code easier to write by making it less literal |
| Algorithm | | Instructions for how to accomplish something |
| Object | | If code were a sentance, objects would be the nouns. Any "thing" (Array, Number, Boolean)  |
| Precedence | | The order that things happen in |
| Recursion |  | Repeating a process with a smaller problem |

## Data types
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Array](/explanations/array.md) | `[ 42, 'text' ]` | A list that starts at 0. Access data with indexes |
| [Boolean](/explanations/boolean.md) | `true` , `false` | How the computer represents true and false |
| [Number](/explanations/number.md) | `1`   `2.2` | Same as numbers in math |
| [String](/explantions/string.md) | `'this is some text'`, `"this is more text"` | Used to store text.  Single and double quotes |


## Tools
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Boolean Comparison](/explanations/boolean.md#boolean-comparisons) | `1 == 1` returns `true`, `'text'==2` returns `false` |	Equalities and inequalities |
| [Boolean Operator](/explanations/boolean.md#boolean-operators) | AND: `1==1 && 2==2` returns `true` OR: `1==1 || 'text'==2` returns `true` | Combines boolean comparisons |
| [Control Flow](/explanations/control_flow.md) | `puts 'equal' if 1==1` | How to teach the computer to make decisions |

## Tools for abstraction
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Function](/explanations/function.md) | DEFINE: `def my_function; end;` USE: `my_function` | If code were a sentance, functions would be the Verbs |
| [Function Argument](/explanations/function.md#arguments) | DEFINE: `def my_function(argument_1, argument_2)`, USE: `my_function(1, 2)` | The objects we give to a function |
| [Method](/explanations/function.md) | `[1,2,3].length` returns `3`  | Functions called on objects |
| [Variable](/explanations/variable.md) | `my_age = 27` | saving an object by giving it a name |
| [While Loop](/explanations/while_loop.md) | `while _condition_` | Repeat a set of instructions until condition is false |

Commit message:

add readers guide to week 1

weekly_glossaries/week_1.md, after:

# Week 1 Glossary

## How to approach this learning
These are the things we are going to discuss in the first class.  Don't worry about understanding everything.  This is just to prime your brain for learning in class.
This will also be your reference guide for the class

1) Read through entire glossary.  Don't worry about understanding  
2) Starting with the Data Types, click the link and read through the summary  
3) In each summary, there are examples and exercises.  Read through the examples and try the exercises  
4) Once you are done with Data Types, move on to Tools, then Tools for Abstraction


## Concepts
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Abstraction | | Making code easier to write by making it less literal |
| Algorithm | | Instructions for how to accomplish something |
| Object | | If code were a sentance, objects would be the nouns. Any "thing" (Array, Number, Boolean)  |
| Precedence | | The order that things happen in |
| Recursion |  | Repeating a process with a smaller problem |

## Data types
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Array](/explanations/array.md) | `[ 42, 'text' ]` | A list that starts at 0. Access data with indexes |
| [Boolean](/explanations/boolean.md) | `true` , `false` | How the computer represents true and false |
| [Number](/explanations/number.md) | `1`   `2.2` | Same as numbers in math |
| [String](/explantions/string.md) | `'this is some text'`, `"this is more text"` | Used to store text.  Single and double quotes |


## Tools
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Boolean Comparison](/explanations/boolean.md#boolean-comparisons) | `1 == 1` returns `true`, `'text'==2` returns `false` |	Equalities and inequalities |
| [Boolean Operator](/explanations/boolean.md#boolean-operators) | AND: `1==1 && 2==2` returns `true` OR: `1==1 || 'text'==2` returns `true` | Combines boolean comparisons |
| [Control Flow](/explanations/control_flow.md) | `puts 'equal' if 1==1` | How to teach the computer to make decisions |

## Tools for abstraction
| Term | Example | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Function](/explanations/function.md) | DEFINE: `def my_function; end;` USE: `my_function` | If code were a sentance, functions would be the Verbs |
| [Function Argument](/explanations/function.md#arguments) | DEFINE: `def my_function(argument_1, argument_2)`, USE: `my_function(1, 2)` | The objects we give to a function |
| [Method](/explanations/function.md) | `[1,2,3].length` returns `3`  | Functions called on objects |
| [Variable](/explanations/variable.md) | `my_age = 27` | saving an object by giving it a name |
| [While Loop](/explanations/while_loop.md) | `while _condition_` | Repeat a set of instructions until condition is false |
